[Main < T0878-DX] Add aditional content (#3)
dtomicevic/neo4jperf-guide: docs/memory.md

---
title: Out of memory exception
sidebar_label: Out of memory exception
slug: /neo4j-out-of-memory
---

Neo4j is built on top of bulky JVM, and with every JVM comes familiar out-of-memory exceptions. Since JVM has internal restrictions, running a database inside of JVM can lead to additional issues. 

## Neo4j out of memory issue

> Out-of-memory issues and JVM are familiar, but let's see what the pain points with Neo4j are. If you search the internet, you will find vast amounts of memory-related issues. Take a look at this ["Neo4j delete graph out of memory"](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44698936/neo4j-delete-graph-out-of-memory). This stack overflow user wants to delete all nodes and relationships, with 11 million of those. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out-of-memory issues and JVM are familiar, but let's see what the pain points with Neo4j are. If you search the Internet, you will find vast amounts of memory-related issues. Take a look at this ["Neo4j delete graph out of memory"](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44698936/neo4j-delete-graph-out-of-memory). This stack overflow user wants to delete all nodes and relationships, 11 million entities. 
```

The user runs simple Cypher: 
```
MATCH (n) 
DETACH DELETE n
```
But after loading a while, there comes an `Out of memory` exception. This issue can be fixed quite quickly, we will show how, and in most cases, these issues are quite easy to fix but can be pretty frustrating. 

## How to fix out-of-memory issues? 

### Optimize your Cypher query

In quite a few cases, there are some query issues. You can use [Query tuning tool](performance-config.md) we mentioned in performance config. 
Out-of-memory issues are happening on some big workloads, and if your query is causing it, you can use `PERIODIC COMMIT` or APOC we mentioned in [writing speed guide](/docs/write-speed.md). In short, running your queries in batches is less memory intensive than running them all in a single chunk. 

### Set your memory limits

> Since Neo4j is running on top of JVM, there is a possibility to configure JVM memory settings. Neo4j have an `neo4j.conf` file for configuration, here is a [reference](https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/reference/configuration-settings/) too all options. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Neo4j is running on top of JVM, there is a possibility to configure JVM memory settings. Neo4j has an `neo4j.conf` file for configuration, here is a [reference](https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/reference/configuration-settings/) to all options. 
```

There are three options that you can use to handle memory issues: 

* `dbms.memory.heap.initial_size` 
* `dbms.memory.heap.max_size`
* `dbms.jvm.additional`

The Neo4j configuration parameter `dbms.memory.heap.initial_size` defines the initial reserved size of the memory heap available to Neo4j. If you do not set an exact value, the value is determined by JVM and available system resources. 

> The next Neo4j configuration parameter `dbms.memory.heap.max_size` defines to upper limit on your Neo4j heap size. Again, if you do not set the value, it will be set by JVM explicitly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next Neo4j configuration parameter `dbms.memory.heap.max_size` defines the upper limit on your Neo4j heap size. Again, if you do not set the value, it will be set by JVM explicitly. 
```
